---
layout: post
title: "Open Source|CSC426|Week 4: Firefox Developer Tools  "
author: "Sher Sanginov"
---
What is the purpose of the project?
How many people are working on the project?
How active is the project?
Where would you start if you were interested in helping with the project?
What usable technical documents that describe the project (e.g., functional requirements, design documents, installation documentation, etc.) exist?
How are bugs and feature requests tracked? Are there a lot of open items? Are they being worked on? Are issues being addressed?
How long do you think it would take you to download and install this product?
How do the developers communicate with each other? What channels or tools are available within the project?
What has been the most interesting thing you learned through this exercise?
Additionally: How does this project compare to the smaller-scale project you wrote about in your last blog post? Which would you rather contribute to?


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Firefox Developer Tools are sets of developer open source projects that have large number of contributors.I have always wanted to contribute to big open source projects like Firefox Developer tool however I have had difficulty setting up development environment. In this blog post, I will be exploring one of the Firefox Dev Tools that is known as Gecko. Gecko is the name of the layout engine developed by the Mozilla Project. Gecko's function is to read web content, such as HTML, CSS, XUL, JavaScript, and render it on the user's screen or print it. The project itself seems very interesting to me. This is because it uses different programming languages and attracts developers from various backgrounds. Gecko has 3194 contributors which is a lot. I feel like communities with large number of contributors are more active compared to smaller communities. The project is very active and it has 560,339 commits. I am very interested to contribute to this project. So, where would I start if I were to contribute to this project? Actually, in the project description, Gecko provides a link to new contributors to read about how to get started with contributing to this project. I actually read the beginner guide and it is very straightforward for new contributors. I feel like "How to get started" links on open source projects are super-useful for new contributors. I am very comfortable with Python programming language. The Firefox contributor guide states, "If you know Python, you can contribute to our web services, including Firefox Sync or Firefox Accounts." Thus, I think I will start working issues related to web services since they are written in Python. The project provides several useful documents for contributors. Documents that I found very useful on their repository are ["How to contribute link"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Introduction), and the actual README document.


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;



&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
