---
layout: post
title: "Lessons from My Internship"
author: "Sher Sanginov"
---



&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;By interning in the Computer Science Department of Berea College for the past three month, I expanded my technical knowledge and network, got to work on projects used by various customers and improved skills like time-management, leadership and communicating with customers. Truly, it was a valuable experience that will benefit me throughout my computer science journey.
One of the great takeaways from my internship is that it gave me the real-world perspective. While I also learnt a lot in my CS classes, my internship gave me a hands-on experience which is essential for my career goals. Thus, I realized that the classroom is no substitute for real life. Throughout my internship, I was bound to learn new skills while building web applications. Before starting my internship, my first experience with web development was mostly front-end development like building static web pages using HTML and CSS. I did not have enough experience in building dynamic web applications that interacts with database and does various functionalities in the backend. Thus, I was very eager to learn more about it. After my internship, I learnt design and architecture of web applications while also implementing them using various web frameworks like Ruby on Rails and Flask.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When I worked on my personal projects, I used to write code in order to prove that I can do it consequently of very poor quality. Thus, I never used to think about writing clean code until I got a lot of suggestions and feedback from my internship instructors. Thus, my internship experience taught me to write clean code and contributed in making me a better programmer. Moreover, writing clean and efficient code made me think about scalability of web applications. Afterwards, I was very interested to learn more about the design of scalable web applications and decided to write a research paper on it as my capstone. Oftentimes, throughout my internship, I used to reflect each day and make notes of my experiences and skills I gained. This technique became very essential in building my resume. When updating my resume, I did not have to think back of what I did since I had concrete example on my notes.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I treated my internship as my actual and permanent job. This is because, I was working on multiple projects with different teams. It was challenging but at the same time, I improved my multitasking, time-management and leadership skills. Usually, in college it is very easy to fall into the habit of procrastination but in the actual job or internships, things are totally different. We have deadlines to meet and have to show the result to our customers. For me, one of the best ways to manage this efficiently was to work ahead when I could without putting it off to the next day. Deadline are very important. We have customers and they expect us to finish certain features by certain time. Even though some of the deadlines were flexible, we always felt pressure to get it done. On the other hand, building web applications with a team was very enjoyable, and I had fun working in diverse working environment. The teammates I worked were originally from different countries like Zimbabwe, South Sudan, Haiti and the United States. Oftentimes, the working environment reminded me of some international tech corporation. As a result, working in a diverse team led to a better discussions, decisions and outcomes as diversity fostered a more innovative and creative workspace. There we times I was in charge of leading my team. This is because, I was very comfortable with some of the systems I worked with. As a team leader, I often had a small meeting with my team to talk about our progress, difficulties and had a general discussions about the system. Finally, as an intern, I became very comfortable with meeting and talking to clients about their product. A lot of times, I had to do usability tests with customers on different features of web applications in order to test how easy it is to use our web applications.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Through my internship experiences, I developed a sense of leadership, confidence and responsibility. It made me a better student, developer and designer. These skills are very valuable to my current and future career goals, and I am more than ready to do another internship next summer. (722 words)
