---
layout: post
title: "Open Source|CSC426|Week 10: Reading - The Magic Cauldron "
author: "Sher Sanginov"
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **The Magic Cauldron** is an essay written by Eric Raymond who describes various open source business models employed by tech companies. He goes further explaining two types of value that gives an open source software its value: use and sale value. Finally, the author explains several reasons when might a business be closed or open source.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;According to the author, software and computer program has two distinct kinds of economic value: use value and sale value. Use value is basically the use of computer program and how much use/benefit can be obtained from certain software. The sale value, on the other hand, is the final cost of the software which can include its development and other factors. The author is inclined more towards the use value as he states: "the code written for sale is only the tip of the programming iceberg." More than 75% of programmers get paid to writing and maintaining code that has no value at all.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Raymond goes further into discussing different open source business models that are used by tech companies. One of the most well-known business models is called a factory model. In factory model, most developer time is paid for by sale value and sale value of a software is proportional to its development cost. Thus, companies who adopted this model want customers who buy their product rather than focusing on users. This results in a software being useless in the near future.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After reading this essay, I really enjoyed learning about different business models because I always wondered how open source software makes money. For example, RedHat is a company that produces open source software. RedHat's business strategy is very interesting. First, they make their product open source. Once different companies start using their product, these companies will eventually need someone to maintain the software. As a result, they will pay RedHat to maintain an open source software. Thus, most of the RedHat's income comes from maintaining the code that is open source.
