---
layout: post
title: "Open Source|CSC426|Week 4: Firefox Developer Tools  "
author: "Sher Sanginov"
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Firefox Developer Tools are sets of developer open source projects that have large number of contributors. I have always wanted to contribute to big open source projects like Firefox Developer tool, however I have had difficulty setting up development environment. In this blog post, I will be exploring one of the Firefox Dev Tools that is known as Gecko. Gecko is the name of the layout engine developed by the Mozilla Project. Gecko's function is to read web content, such as HTML, CSS, XUL, JavaScript, and render it on the user's screen or print it. The project itself seems very interesting to me. This is because it uses different programming languages and attracts developers from various backgrounds. Gecko has 3194 contributors which is a lot. I feel like communities with large number of contributors are more active compared to smaller communities. The project is very active and it has 560,339 commits. I am very interested to contribute to this project. So, where would I start if I were to contribute to this project? Actually, in the project description, Gecko provides a link to new contributors to read about how to get started with contributing to this project. I actually read the beginner guide and it is very straightforward for new contributors. I feel like "How to get started" links on open source projects are super-useful for new contributors. I am very comfortable with Python programming language. The Firefox contributor guide states, "If you know Python, you can contribute to our web services, including Firefox Sync or Firefox Accounts." Thus, I think I will start working issues related to web services since they are written in Python. The project provides several useful documents for contributors. Documents that I found very useful on their repository are ["How to contribute link"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Developer_guide/Introduction), and the actual README document. When it comes to tracking bugs, Firefox does not use Github's issue tracker to keep track of their tickets. They use Mozilla's Bugzilla to keep track of their issues. There are currently a lot of open bugs that are available to work on. I really like the use of Bugzilla by Mozilla because it keeps tickets more organized compared to Github's bug tracker.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One of the toughest tasks for me when starting to contribute to large-scale project such as Firefox Developer Tools is to setup my development environment. For this project, the README document actually provides a link to the website that helps developers to set up the developer environment. Since Firefox developer tools is a very large open source project, I assume it might take some time to build the whole project on my local environment. Communication is very important when it comes to open source communities. Contributors use Slack channel to communicate with each other in Firefox Dev Tools open source project.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;By diving deep and exploring Gecko developer tool open source project and community, I realized that I really want to contribute to Mozilla's open source projects and be involved in their community. Mozilla's open source community is very active, helpful and fun to work with. I look forward to contributing to this project in the near future.
