---
layout: post
title: "Open Source|CSC426|Week 3: Exploration  "
author: "Sher Sanginov"
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This week, I have decided to dive in deeper into one of the small-scale open source projects, Sugar Labs. Sugar Lab is a collection of tools that learners use to explore, discover, create, and reflect on and used mostly by teachers and children. According to its Github repository, Sugar Labs community does not seem to be very active. I think one reason is that Sugar Labs is a small open-source project. The project has not been active lately and there are very few commits in its Github repo. For example, in the past 30 days, there have only been 2 commits by two contributors. I am starting to realize that I want to contribute to an active open source community. The reason is that it is easier to communicate with contributors in big, active communities. I often notice that big open source projects have a huge number of contributors and active community. That is why I feel like I have always been inclined towards contributing to big-scale open source projects.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When it comes to contributing and getting involved in Sugar Labs, Sugar Lab community did a great job on the documentation. One interesting thing is that Sugar Labs not only welcomes developers, but also designers, content writers, translators and educators. I think that many beginners who want to contribute to an open source project think that the only way to contribute is a code. However, it is not true. Thus, Sugar Labs attracts wide range of people from different backgrounds. If I were to contribute to Sugar Labs, I would start contributing as a developer. This is because I have an experience with most of the tools they use to build Sugar Labs. Moreover, Sugar Labs has some technical documents like README.md that gives basic info about the project and steps to install Sugar Labs. Another reason I would not want to contribute to Sugar Labs is that there are very few bugs in the bug tracker. Currently, there are only 7 open issues in the bug tracker and no one has claimed them yet and they are not being addressed. In contrast, big open source projects have so many issues to work on. For example, Golang programming language open source community has 3146 issues on its Github bug tracker. So, this is another difference between big and small scale open source projects.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When starting to contribute to open source projects, one of the frustrating things for beginners is to set up the development environment. There were times I wanted to contribute to big open source projects like Tensorflow. However, I was unable to setup the development environment. When it comes to Sugar Labs, I think setting up development environment might take 30 minutes. This is because the project is small and fortunately they have created a bash file which installs all the dependencies for you once you run it. So, installing Sugar Lab's developer environment would not be very frustrating. Sugar Labs community uses IRC channel to communicate among one another and mailing list to get status updates about the project. However, I joined their channel on IRC and they have not been active lately. I think it is due to the project being complete since Sugar Labs is currently in maintenance status. By diving deep and exploring Sugar Labs open source project and community, I realized that I want to be contributing to a project that draws larger, active community to itself. Moreover, through this exercise, now I am able to compare and contrast big and small scale open source projects.
